Usage Documentation

User Login
A Google account is to login and use Cal++. On the welcome page, the user is greeted with a get started button, taking the user to Google's signin page for authentication. The user must give Cal++ permissions in order to continue. The user may securely logout at anytime using the sidebar to the left. No information other than the user's name, email, and calendar info is being stored on Cal++ servers.

Calendar Import
Importing calendars, one of the most useful ways to try out Cal++'s innovative functionality, is done using Google Calendar's API and the user's Google account. On the left hand side of the calendar, click the button that says “Import from Google.” All of the user's Google Calendars will display, ready for import. The user can import as many calendars as they want.

Adding Events
To add an event to the calendar, click the day in month view on which you want the event added. New events can also be created by clicking anywhere in week view of day view. A form will pop-up prompting the user for relevant information.

Importance
The way we designed our calendar, the user is able to classify an event into 3 categories. Normal (not important), Plus (somewhat important), and PlusPlus (very important). The user can manually specify importance on the front end client or they can let the server run its algorithm to determine importance automatically. The backend word mines incoming events for key words that increase or decrease relative importance.  

Changing Dates
To move an event to a different date, simply drag the event icon from one date to another, or click on the event and the popup form will allow you to manually specify the start and end time of your event.

Event Details
To reveal more details about an event, hover over the event icon and a popup will show more information such as the event name, time, etc.

Importance Denotation
Normal events are denoted by a simple circle on the calendar
Plus events are denoted by an outline around the event.
PlusPlus events are denoted by a colored outline around the event.
This view allows the user to get a visual understanding of when his or her important events are whether in month, week, or day view.

Installing Rails (on a UNIX based system)
1.	Launch terminal on your computer, ruby must first be installed. On Mac OS X, you must install the command-line developer tools that can be downloaded in the preferences of Xcode.
2.	Enter the following commands to install Rubygems
	a.	sudo gem update –system
	b.	sudo gem install rubygems-update
	c.	sudo update_rubygems
3.	Within terminal, enter the directory in which all the application files of your server are stored
4.	Type in “sudo gem install rails” to install the Ruby on Rails package
5.	Type in “rails server” and follow instructions given by the terminal. You must install all required depencies for the rails application. You may have to run the rails server multiple times until all the requirements are satisfied.

The website can be accessed locally on http://localhost:3000/ or through Heroku hosting at http://www.calplusplus.com/.

Note that Cal++ runs best on Google Chrome and WebKit-based browsers such as Safari.